---
layout: page
title: About
---

In the past decade, the field of computer networking systems has been transformed by the availability of NSF-supported research infrastructure, which enables verifiable, repeatable, large-scale experimental research. These infrastructure projects are also a significant asset for computer science and engineering education, and thousands of students have gained hands-on experience with networks and distributed systems through educational use of testbeds. However, although a substantial library of teaching materials exists for earlier testbeds such as GENI (Global Environment for Network Investigations), there are fewer education resources available for more recent infrastructure projects. This project seeks to bootstrap these newer testbeds by adapting some of the most widely used GENI-based teaching materials for the next-generation CloudLab, Chameleon Cloud, and FABRIC platforms.

This project will create a library of high-quality experiential learning materials for CloudLab, Chameleon Cloud, and FABRIC, including hands-on lab assignments and projects on a variety of topics in computer networks and network security. For educators currently using GENI, the project will support a seamless transition to next-generation testbeds with more advanced experimental capabilities. It also lowers the barrier to entry for new education users of CloudLab, Chameleon Cloud, and FABRIC, and reinforces existing education and outreach efforts by these platforms. Furthermore, these education activities can act as a force multiplier for a wide range of research efforts on NSF-supported testbeds, by preparing students to engage effectively with advanced research platforms and experimental methodologies.

Open NSF-supported testbeds make sophisticated networking and cloud computing capabilities available to researchers and students at less-resourced institutions. However, these platforms are designed with extensive capabilities to support complex state-of-the-art research experiments. For this reason, the learning curve for new users can be steep. A collection of open educational resource materials at a level appropriate for senior undergraduate or beginning graduate students will enable broader participation in these platforms, both for education and for research.
